---
layout: page
title: Research	
---

I am an imaging scientist.  My interest in medical imaging came as a result of waterski accident which led to a traumatic brain injury which in turn led to many CT scans when I was in high school.  As an undergraduate, I found a perfect intersection between improving human health care and the elegance of the mathematics and physics that form the framework of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).  I have been fortunate to rigorously pursue these topics - specifically body diffusion MRI - in graduate school and hope to be able to continue with this work afterwards throughout my career.  

## Motivation and Overview
Body MRI has progressed as a detection method for many pathologic processes. It is effective in helping in the diagnosis of unknown primary malignancy, determining skeletal spread of metastasis, and as a cancer screening and staging tool. Diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) is an MRI sequence that relies on alteration in intra- and extracellular water content from disruption of the transmembrane water flux for image contrast.  DWI is routinely used in brain imaging and is particularly useful for early detection of ischemia.  However, DWI sequences rely on an echo planar imaging sequence which is susceptible to imperfections in the magnetic field (i.e., off-resonance) which leads to geometric distortions in the final image.  This is particularly problematic when imaging in the abdomen where proximity to bowel gas and the lungs as well as the greater variability of tissue body water composition exacerbate off-resonance issues and can reduce the clinical utility of EPI sequences.  Despite these challenges and potential for image artifacts, DWI is used in many clinical scanning protocols. 

My thesis work has broadly aimed to reducing distortion in diffusion weighted images in the abdomen.  To achieve this aim, I have developed a robust diffusion weighted single-shot fast spin echo (SS-FSE) sequence.  This sequence has seen three phases of development throughout my PhD.  (1) Initial implementation and introduction of accelerated image acquisition.  (2) Rigorous analysis of the effects of radiofrequency (RF) pulses on signal stability.  (3)  Improved reconstruction and sampling with additional work on analyzing the impact of organ motion.

## Initial Work and Accelerated Acquisition
Various methods have been proposed to overcome distortion in areas of off-resonance.  The most robust "fast" (i.e., the entire image signal is acquired rapidly in one signal excitation) imaging method is the SS-FSE sequence.  SS-FSE allows the signal to be refocused using RF pulses repeatedly which leads to less distortion.  However, the SS-FSE sequence requires strict rules known as the CPMG condition on the refocusing RF pulses, which diffusion contrast inherently violates.  A proposed method that allows using the SS-FSE sequence without the CPMG condition uses a quadratic phase sweep on the phases of the refocusing RF pulses while maintaining full signal.  This technique, however, introduces aliasing into the quadrature component of the final image, which is rendered as a half field-of-view shift.  This aliasing is resolved by transforming this into a parallel imaging problem.  This step is able to resolve imaging with minimal image blurring while maintaining adequate SNR compared to similar methods such as EPI. This work was validated extensively in phantom objects, ex vivo, as well as *in vivo* clinical examples.  

## Signal Stability and RF Pulse Considerations
The nCPMG phase cycling technique also comes with the requirement to maintain both a consistent and sufficiently high refocusing RF pulses flip angle across the excited imaging slice.  Simulation suggests that flip angle must exceed 120$^\circ$ to maintain a stable signal.  These requirements, however, are problematic because to have the RF pulses satisfy achieve this level of selectivity, the RF pulse must be sufficiently long in duration.  Consequently, this increased duration leads to image blur and loss of SNR.  We have improved the SS-FSE sequence by replacing the RF pulses with lower selectivity with RF pulses that are highly selective and short duration.  To achieve these two aims, this class of RF pulses specially shaped to include a variable rate of excitation (VERSE).  In this work we optimized the RF pulses for this application, did rigorous simulation to validate our hypothesis, and validated our simulations in both in phantom and in vivo experiments.  Representative images are seen below.

## Improved Reconstruction and Motion Analysis
While our previous work to resolve the aliasing was robust, it relied on an external calibration scan that is cumbersome for routine clinical imaging.  Recent work has improved the acquisition and reconstruction to not require such calibration as well decrease the needed total acquisition time.  This reduction in acquisition time per image further reduces image blurring and reduces the total scan time by reducing the specific absorption rate (SAR) accumulation throughout the imaging sequence.  Care has been taken to match the reconstruction routine to agree with the physics of the nCPMG theory rather than relying on heuristics. Additional work has been made to decrease in the impacts of motion on image quality to optimizing the diffusion weighting gradients to match the motion seen in the abdomen.  

